Add ingress-nginx injection method (#27047)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_collection/proxy_setup/_index.md

## Ingress-NGINX Controller for Kubernetes

Datadog offers support for monitoring the Ingress-NGINX controller in Kubernetes.
Choose from the following instrumentation methods based on your controller version and requirements:

- [v1.10.0+ using Datadog's features](#controller-v1100-using-datadogs-features).
- [v1.10.0+ using OpenTelemetry](#controller-v1100-using-opentelemetry).
- [v1.9.0 and older](#controller-v190-and-older).

### Controller v1.10.0+ using Datadog's features

This instrumentation method uses [nginx-datadog][6] and leverages Kubernetes [init-container][7] mechanism
to install the module within the Ingress-NGINX Controller instance.

To instrument Ingress-NGINX **v1.10.0+** using Datadog's module, follow these steps:
1. **Verify your Ingress-NGINX version**<br>

> Check the version of your Ingress-NGINX Controller and ensure an appropriate init-container is available.
> Refer to the [compatibility table](#compatibility-version-table) below to ensure the correct configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check your Ingress-NGINX Controller version and ensure you have the matching Datadog init-container available. The init-container version ([datadog/ingress-nginx-injection][8]) must exactly match your controller version to prevent startup issues.
For example, if you're running Ingress-NGINX v1.11.3, you'll need [datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.11.3][9].
```
Merging the compatibility table section into the related step ^

        - name: init-datadog
          image: datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:<MY_INGRESS_NGINX_VERSION>
          command: ['/datadog/init_module.sh', '/opt/datadog-modules']
          volumeMounts:
            - name: nginx-module
              mountPath: /opt/datadog-modules
      containers:
        - name: controller
          image: registry.k8s.io/ingress-nginx/controller:<MY_INGRESS_NGINX_VERSION>
          env:
            - ...
            - name: DD_AGENT_HOST
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: status.hostIP
```
Note: For an alternative way to access the Datadog Agent, see the [Kubernetes installation guide][8].
4. **Configure Ingress-NGINX** <br>
Create or modify the `ConfigMap` to load the Datadog module:

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
...
data:
  enable-opentelemetry: "false"
  error-log-level: notice
  main-snippet: |
    load_module /opt/datadog-modules/ngx_http_datadog_module.so;
```

5. **Apply the ConfigMap** <br>
Apply the updated `ConfigMap` to ensure the Datadog module is correctly loaded.

This configuration ensures that the Datadog module is loaded and ready to trace incoming requests.

> #### Compatibility version table
> 
> Ensure the init-container version for [datadog/ingress-nginx-injection][8] exactly matches the version of your Ingress-NGINX Controller.
> Mismatched versions can prevent Ingress-NGINX from starting.
> 
> For example, Ingress-NGINX version `v1.11.3` must be paired with [datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.11.3][9]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
+1 to @dubloom . We should just delete this section now to avoid users having to jump around the page too much. We should just put this info in step 1.

## Ingress-NGINX Controller for Kubernetes

> Datadog offers support for monitoring Ingress-NGINX controller in Kubernetes.
> Depending of on your version and requirements, you can choose from the following instrumentation methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog offers support for monitoring the Ingress-NGINX controller in Kubernetes.
Choose from the following instrumentation methods based on your controller version and requirements:
```

- [v1.10.0+ using Datadog's features](#controller-v1100-using-datadogs-features).
- [v1.10.0+ using OpenTelemetry](#controller-v1100-using-opentelemetry).
- [v1.9.0 and older](#controller-v190-and-older).

### Controller v1.10.0+ using Datadog's features

This instrumentation method uses [nginx-datadog][6] and leverages Kubernetes [init-container][7] mechanism
to install the module within the Ingress-NGINX Controller instance.

> To instrument Ingress-NGINX <b>v1.10.0+</b> using Datadog's module, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To instrument Ingress-NGINX **v1.10.0+** using Datadog's module, follow these steps:
```

1. **Verify your Ingress-NGINX version**<br>
Check the version of your Ingress-NGINX Controller and ensure an appropriate init-container is available.
Refer to the [compatibility table](#compatibility-version-table) below to ensure the correct configuration.

2. **Modify your controller's pod specification:**<br>
Update the controller pod specification to include the init-container and configure the Datadog Agent host environment variable:

```yaml
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      initContainers:
        - name: init-datadog
          image: datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:<MY_INGRESS_NGINX_VERSION>
          command: ['/datadog/init_module.sh', '/opt/datadog-modules']
          volumeMounts:
            - name: nginx-module
              mountPath: /opt/datadog-modules
      containers:
        - name: controller
          image: registry.k8s.io/ingress-nginx/controller:<MY_INGRESS_NGINX_VERSION>
          env:
            - ...
            - name: DD_AGENT_HOST

>               # or another way to access the datadog-agent
>               # see https://docs.datadoghq.com/containers/kubernetes/installation/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I suggest removing the comment and adding it as a note after the code block. Code is not translated, so alternate language customers wouldn't be able to read this.

              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: status.hostIP
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: For an alternative way to access the Datadog Agent, see the [Kubernetes installation guide][8].
```
Note we'll have to add the reference link to the bottom of the tab to `/containers/kubernetes/installation/`.

4. **Configure Ingress-NGINX** <br>
Create or modify the `ConfigMap` to load the Datadog module:

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
...
data:
  enable-opentelemetry: "false"
  error-log-level: notice
  main-snippet: |
    load_module /opt/datadog-modules/ngx_http_datadog_module.so;
```

5. **Apply the ConfigMap** <br>
Apply the updated `ConfigMap` to ensure the Datadog module is correctly loaded.

This configuration ensures that the Datadog module is loaded and ready to trace incoming requests.

#### Compatibility version table

> Ensure the init-container version matches the version of your Ingress-NGINX Controller.
> Mismatched versions can prevent Ingress-NGINX from starting:
> 
> | Ingress-NGINX version | init-container |
> | - | - |
> | v1.11.3 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.11.3 |
> | v1.11.2 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.11.2 |
> | v1.11.1 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.11.1 |
> | v1.11.0 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.11.0 |
> | v1.10.6 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.6 |
> | v1.10.5 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.5 |
> | v1.10.4 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.4 |
> | v1.10.3 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.3 |
> | v1.10.2 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.2 |
> | v1.10.1 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.1 |
> | v1.10.0 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.0 |
> | v1.9.6 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.9.6 |

Reviewer 2: Can we express this more concisely/future proofed?

```suggestion
Ensure the init-container version for [datadog/ingress-nginx-injection][8] exactly matches the version of your Ingress-NGINX Controller.
Mismatched versions can prevent Ingress-NGINX from starting.

For example, Ingress-NGINX version `v1.11.3` must be paired with [datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.11.3][9]
```

Author: That was my first intent but want it to be fool proof at the detriment to be verbose and a maintenance burden.

Reviewer 2: If this were to be collapsed by default and automatically updated, I'd think differently

Without that, I have concerns that this adds visual noise and even more confusion if we forget to update the docs

Reviewer: I see where you are coming from @dmehala , but I agree with Brian that this doesn't seem worth the maintenance overhead and extra clutter to the doc. I think a single example like Brian provided would be sufficient.

Maybe we try it without the table for now? We can always add it back in a later revision if we think we still need it.

Note: If we apply this edit, we should also rename the section header + the reference to this section in step 1, "Verify your Ingress-NGINX version".

## Ingress-NGINX Controller for Kubernetes

> Datadog offers for monitoring ingress-nginx controller in Kubernetes.

Author: ```suggestion
Datadog offers support for monitoring Ingress-NGINX controller in Kubernetes.
```

Depending of on your version and requirements, you can choose from the following instrumentation methods:

> 1. [v1.10.0 and newer using Datadog's features][].

Author: ```suggestion
1. [v1.10.0 and newer using Datadog's features][#controller-v1100-using-datadogs-features].
```

> 2. [v1.10.0 and newer using OpenTelemetry][].

Author: ```suggestion
2. [v1.10.0 and newer using OpenTelemetry](#controller-v1100-using-opentelemetry).
```

> 3. [v1.9.0 and older using Datadog's OpenTracing][].

Author: ```suggestion
3. [v1.9.0 and older using Datadog's OpenTracing](#controller-v190-and-older).
```

> 1. [v1.10.0 and newer using Datadog's features](#controller-v1100-using-datadogs-features).
> 2. [v1.10.0 and newer using OpenTelemetry](#controller-v1100-using-opentelemetry).
> 3. [v1.9.0 and older using Datadog's OpenTracing](#controller-v190-and-older).

Author: ```suggestion
- [v1.10.0+ using Datadog's features](#controller-v1100-using-datadogs-features).
- [v1.10.0+ using OpenTelemetry](#controller-v1100-using-opentelemetry).
- [v1.9.0 and older](#controller-v190-and-older).
```

### Controller v1.10.0+ using Datadog's features

> This instrumentation method uses [nginx-datadog][6], Datadog's module for NGINX and leverages Kubernetes [init-container][7] mechanism

Author: ```suggestion
This instrumentation method uses [nginx-datadog][6] and leverages Kubernetes [init-container][7] mechanism
```

to install the module within the Ingress-NGINX Controller instance.

To instrument Ingress-NGINX <b>v1.10.0+</b> using Datadog's module, follow these steps:
1. **Verify your Ingress-NGINX version**<br>
Check the version of your Ingress-NGINX Controller and ensure an appropriate init-container is available.

> Refer to the [compatibility table][] below to ensure the correct configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
Refer to the [compatibility table](#compatibility-version-table) below to ensure the correct configuration.
```

> 2. **Modify your controller’s pod specification:**<br>

Author: ```suggestion
2. **Modify your controller's pod specification:**<br>
```

Update the controller pod specification to include the init-container and configure the Datadog Agent host environment variable:

```yaml
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      initContainers:
        - name: init-datadog
          image: datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:<MY_INGRESS_NGINX_VERSION>
          command: ['/datadog/init_module.sh', '/opt/datadog-modules']
          volumeMounts:
            - name: nginx-module
              mountPath: /opt/datadog-modules
      containers:
        - name: controller
          image: registry.k8s.io/ingress-nginx/controller:<MY_INGRESS_NGINX_VERSION>
          env:
            - ...
            - name: DD_AGENT_HOST
              # or another way to access the datadog-agent
              # see https://docs.datadoghq.com/containers/kubernetes/installation/
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: status.hostIP
```

4. **Configure Ingress-NGINX** <br>
Create or modify the `ConfigMap` to load the Datadog module:

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
...
data:
  enable-opentelemetry: "false"
  error-log-level: notice
  main-snippet: |
    load_module /opt/datadog-modules/ngx_http_datadog_module.so;
```

> 5. **Apply the ConfigMap**

Author: ```suggestion
5. **Apply the ConfigMap** <br>
```

Apply the updated `ConfigMap` to ensure the Datadog module is correctly loaded.

> This configuration will ensure that the Datadog module is loaded and ready to trace incoming requests.

Author: ```suggestion
This configuration ensures that the Datadog module is loaded and ready to trace incoming requests.
```

> #### Compatibility Version Table

Author: ```suggestion
#### Compatibility version table
```

Ensure the init-container version matches the version of your Ingress-NGINX Controller.
Mismatched versions can prevent Ingress-NGINX from starting:

| Ingress-NGINX version | init-container |
| - | - |
| v1.11.3 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.11.3 |
| v1.11.2 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.11.2 |
| v1.11.1 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.11.1 |
| v1.11.0 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.11.0 |
| v1.10.6 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.6 |
| v1.10.5 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.5 |
| v1.10.4 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.4 |
| v1.10.3 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.3 |
| v1.10.2 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.2 |
| v1.10.1 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.1 |
| v1.10.0 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.10.0 |
| v1.9.6 | datadog/ingress-nginx-injection:v1.9.6 |

### Controller v1.10.0+ using OpenTelemetry

> **1. Prepare the Datadog Agent:** Ensure that your Datadog Agent has [gRPC OTLP Ingestion enabled][5] to act as an OpenTelemetry Collector.

Author: ```suggestion
**1. Prepare the Datadog Agent** <br>
Ensure that your Datadog Agent has [gRPC OTLP Ingestion enabled][5] to act as an OpenTelemetry Collector.
```

[3]: https://hub.docker.com/layers/library/amazonlinux/2.0.20230119.1/images/sha256-db0bf55c548efbbb167c60ced2eb0ca60769de293667d18b92c0c089b8038279?context=explore
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/nginx-datadog/blob/master/doc/API.md
[5]: /opentelemetry/otlp_ingest_in_the_agent/
[6]: https://github.com/DataDog/nginx-datadog/
[7]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/

> [8] https://hub.docker.com/r/datadog/ingress-nginx-injection
> [9] https://hub.docker.com/layers/datadog/ingress-nginx-injection/v1.11.3/images/sha256-19ea2874d8a4ebbe4de0bf08faeb84c755cd71f1e8740ce2d145c5cf954a33a1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[8]: https://hub.docker.com/r/datadog/ingress-nginx-injection
[9]: https://hub.docker.com/layers/datadog/ingress-nginx-injection/v1.11.3/images/sha256-19ea2874d8a4ebbe4de0bf08faeb84c755cd71f1e8740ce2d145c5cf954a33a1
```
These links are currently broken in the preview page. This should fix it. 😄

[3]: https://hub.docker.com/layers/library/amazonlinux/2.0.20230119.1/images/sha256-db0bf55c548efbbb167c60ced2eb0ca60769de293667d18b92c0c089b8038279?context=explore
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/nginx-datadog/blob/master/doc/API.md
[5]: /opentelemetry/otlp_ingest_in_the_agent/
[6]: https://github.com/DataDog/nginx-datadog/

> [7]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[7]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/
[8] https://hub.docker.com/r/datadog/ingress-nginx-injection
[9] https://hub.docker.com/layers/datadog/ingress-nginx-injection/v1.11.3/images/sha256-19ea2874d8a4ebbe4de0bf08faeb84c755cd71f1e8740ce2d145c5cf954a33a1
```
